File Format
===========

As a software toolbox, DNNBrain have to load source data from and save
result data to files inevitably. In order to regularize the data storage
of DNNBrain on the hard disk, we design some file formats including
.stim.csv, .dmask.csv, .act.h5, .roi.h5, and .rdm.h5.

You can check the summary information of these files by using ``db_info``.
Such as:

::

   db_info AlexNet.act.h5

.stim.csv
---------

First and foremost, we have to input stimulus data before getting either
DNN activation or brain response. And we design a file format which is
recognized by the **dual suffix “.stim.csv”** to help DNNBrain load
stimuli of interest from the specified place on the hard disk. More than
that, the .stim.csv file is designed to contain other stimulus
information and even behavior data. More details will be stated below
(Fig. 1).

.. raw:: html

   <center>

|image0|

Figure 1

.. raw:: html

   </center>

The .stim.csv file is a type of text file adapted from the CSV (comma
separated values) file format. **Its contents are divided into two parts
by the line that starts with “data=”.** The lines before the “data=”
line are **header** portion, and the remaining lines are **data**
portion.

The header contains metainformation about the data, and each line in
header is a key/value pair separated by equal sign “=”: the left is the
key and the right is the value. **Two necessary lines** should be
included in the header. One is the “type=” line, its value must be image
or video which indicates the type of stimulus data. The other is the
“path=” line, its value is the parent directory of image stimuli
(type=image) or the file path of video stimuli (type=video). Other
key/value pairs are optional and defined by users at will.

**The data begins with “data=” line, its value contains some fields
separated by comma “,”. Under the “data=” line, data are organized as a
n_stim x n_field matrix (n_stim: the number of stimuli; n_field: the
number of fields in the “data=” line).** The rows of the matrix are the
lines under the “data=” line, and the columns separated by comma “,” are
one-to-one corresponding with fields. There should be at least one field
named “stimID”. If the type is image, the elements of “stimID” column
are paths of image files relative to the parent directory in “path=”
line; If the type is video, the elements of “stimID” column are serial
numbers of frames of the video file in “path=” line. Other fields are
optional and defined by users at will, for example, users can add some
behavior fields such as “reaction time” and “response”. It should be
noted that some field names (“label”, “condition”, “onset” and
“duration”) are reserved words used by DNNBrain. “label” means category
label of a stimulus. “condition” means category name. “onset” is the
onset time of a stimulus relative to the start of brain activity.
“duration” is the duration time after an onset. Other self-defined
fields’ values in corresponding columns will be regarded as float type.

.dmask.csv
----------

We design “.dmask.csv” file format to conveniently define layers /
channels / rows / columns of interest as a mask of DNN units. It is also
a text file adapted from CSV file format(Fig. 2).

.. raw:: html

   <center>

|image1|

Figure 2

.. raw:: html

   </center>

The number of layers in the file is counted by layer lines that contain
an equal sign “=”. The left of the “=” is layer name, and the right are
axes separated by comma “,” and chose from “chn”, “row” and “col” (chn:
channel; col: column). Under a layer line, there are n_axis lines which
are ono-to-one corresponding with axes, and each line contains serial
numbers of interest of the corresponding axis which are separated by
comma “,”.

.act.h5
-------

For storage of DNN activation produced or used by DNNBrain, we design
the “.act.h5” file format. It is actually a HDF5 (Hierarchical Data
Format 5) file. The .act.h5 file is able to store different layers’
activation, and each layer’s activation can be retrieved by its own
layer name. The activation data of each layer are organized as a n_stim
x n_chn x n_row x n_col array, as a result, the activation of the fully
connected layer should be organized as a n_stim x n_feat x 1 x 1 array.

.roi.h5
-------

“.roi.h5” file format is designed to store ROI names and data of brain
response. ROI names are organized as a list which can be retrieved by
keyword “roi”, and ROI data are organized as a n_vol x n_roi array which
can be retrieved by keyword “data”. There is one-to-one correspondence
between ROI names and columns of the data array.

.rdm.h5
-------

“.rdm.h5” file format is designed to store representation distance
matrices (RDMs) for DNN activation and brain activation, and we use
“dRDM” and “bRDM” to distinguish each other respectively. If the type of
RDM is “dRDM”, each layer’s RDMs can be retrieved by its own layer name;
If the type is “bRDM”, each ROI’s RDM can be retrieved by its own ROI
label (Fig. 3).
**Note:**\ For saving time and space, “.rdm.h5” file only hold on the
upper triangle of each RDM. We can use np.tri(n_item, k=-1,
dtype=np.bool).T to get the index array of the upper triangle. And the
index array can help us to restore RDM from the upper triangle whose
shape is ((n_item^2-n_item)/2,).

.. raw:: html

   <center>

|image2|

Figure 3

.. raw:: html

   </center>

.. |image0| image:: ../img/file_format/stim.png
.. |image1| image:: ../img/file_format/dmask.png
.. |image2| image:: ../img/file_format/rdm.png

